In this step we will start discussing about multi-thread being.
What is the need for threads in Jawa and we would look at a lot of topics related to threads.
We look at how to create a thread.
How can you run a thread.
What are the different states that a thread can be in.
We would talk about thread priority.
Execute a service.
We'll talk about callable and also we'll talk about synchronization of threats before we move into threat.
There is something I would want to reiterate about generics.
There are three examples in the work space.
One is Gentex examples.
The other one is generalistic generics example stew and gendered examples.
There are a lot of generic examples in this specific thing as well.
So you can try and spend some time with these generics examples so that you can understand generics
much better.
So I would really recommend to spend at least 15 minutes with these examples and read the comment which
had their plan look at the examples and try and understand them perfectly.
That would really give you a good background on the generics.
Let's now get back to the topic at hand which is multi-threading.
So what is the need for trade in Java.
So what does it need for trade in general.
If you look at your operating system your operating system basically has a number of processes running
right.
You have probably a Word document open you are playing a video in parallel.
You might be listening to music in parallel.
So your operating system should do multiple things in parallel to you have multiple processes running
in parallel similar to that in say that jawab process instead of our program.
You want to do multiple things in parallel so you want to follow multiple paths of execution multiple
code.
You want to execute in battle in those kind of situations you would want to go with the threat.
Let's look at an example to understand why we need it.
Let's say we are developing a cricket statistics application.
You can kind of think of it like a bowling or baseball statistics application.
So there are different departments in cricket bowling batting and fielding in baseball.
You were I guess called bowling as preaching.
I think batting remains the same and Fielding also remains the same.
So let's say I'm developing a baseball application with the pitching batting and fielding statistics
kind of a thing I would want to download the statistics and million.
Let's say the current program Pachelbel is present.
It's doing its sequinned sheerly let's say.
Step one is to do the statistics for Boling and it takes 60 Minutes.
Step two is batting 16 minutes.
Step three of fielding and it takes 15 minutes to download and do all the statistics and step 4 is to
margin analyze which is taking 25 minutes to do the whole thing.
Step by step we are wait.
We are taking a total of 160 minutes and let's say the requirement is that we should be able to run
this program much much much faster.
Let's say you want to run this program in half the time a thread can be one of the solutions to this
problem thread.
Because the downloading the bowling started districts independent of batting statistics and independent
of me feelings and sticks what we can try and do is Kickoff these in Badler so you can run this thread
in parallel with this thread.
Step one step two step three.
You can brand them in parallel and then once all these steps are completed then I can start Demerjian
and Les's thread.
This is typically how we do that Right-O example or download and start batting statistics.
Download and store bowling districts filling statistics put in place.
This is CVN.
So they're just doing it the.
We want to do that in parallel.
How do we do that.
So to be able to do that in Berlin we need to be able to create thread.
So how do you create a thread.
There are two ways we can create threads.
One is extending the thread class so you would use inheritance and extend the thread class.
The other one is by implementing an interface.
So what we'll do is we'll create the battings statistics thread extending the thread class and we create
the bowling statistics thread implementing the Runnable interface.
So let's go into the have the batting statistics.
It can be done.
The basic way you can create that Baghdadi's thread is by extending the thread.
So we extent thread class and we are actually doing the defining the run method.
The most important thing is public wide.
So this is the signature you need to adhere to and you define inside this what you want to do as part
of the babbling sadistic state.
So here I'm just having some dummy logic loop up 2000 and put in some.
And so that's how you extend the thread class and you create a thread.
So we are for the bagging sadistic thread we are extending it class and we're creating it.
How do you create a threat by implementing the Runnable interface.
You can look at it here.
So it basically implements ramble and you would define the same precise method.
So if you look at these two things batting statistics and Boling statistic that there isn't a huge difference
in there.
So it extends thread.
This one implements are unknowable but it's precisely the same method definition for RAM.
How do you run that thread in Java.
Running a thread in Java is little different bears don't.
Have you created the thread.
So if I created the thread extending the thread class then I would run it differently.
Compare to if I'm implementing the interface.
Let's quickly look at it earlier.
We saw that the banks had this thread.
How did we create it.
We created it by extending trade skills so we extended the thread class and created the batting statistics
that.
Anything that is extending the thread class the way you would run it is just create the instance so
I'm creating babbling statistics thread is it you batting statistics thread and call Start method.
The most important thing to remember is you are not calling the Line method.
It's not the one method that you would need to call.
You need to call the Start method.
So here you are not invoking the run method you are calling the start method.
Sure that this can create a new thread and run in a separate thing.
The other kind of threads that we want to create are the ones created implementing this interface.
We created the bowling statistics thread by implementing rentable.
So the way you'd run bowling statistics thread is by creating a new thread and passing an instance of
the bowling statistics thread.
So we create a bowling statistics thread we cleared instance of the bowling thread statistics thread
and reported to a new thread and then we can call the Start method on it.
So earlier we directly called this documentary on the instance of the thread but when you implement
the Runnable interface there is one more step in war.
So you create an instance of the class which is implementing the RAM interface and you create an instance
of the thread giving that instance to it.
So it's a new thread off new Bohlig Stylistics the date.
So what do you do and you can then call this document.
So this is how you would start a thread when it's created using the Runnable interface when it's created.
Implementing didn't interferes with your day.
Two things.
One is creating the batting statistics thread.
The other one is creating the bowling statistics thread and we have nuff understood.
Hope Kickoff those two threads in parallel so you just need to have discord and call the start.
And here you create an instance of the class implementing the interface and use new thread and passed
the instance we created.
And on the thread object call this document.
Now that we learn that we will now focus on the different states of a thread.